README.md, before:

# Overview / 概要

The m5core2_defrag project displays a disk defragmentation tool-like animation on the [M5Stack Core 2](https://docs.m5stack.com/en/core/core2) etc.

\[日本語\]

m5core2_defrag プロジェクトは、[M5Stack Core 2](https://docs.m5stack.com/en/core/core2) などにディスクデフラグメンテーションツール風のアニメーションを表示します。

# Supported device / 対応デバイス

- M5Stack Core2

# Potentially compatible devices / 対応していると思われるデバイス

- M5Stack Basic
- M5Stack Gray
- M5Stack Fire
- M5Stack CoreS3
- M5Stack CoreS3SE
- M5Stack Tab5

# Video / 動画

![video](video.gif)

# Installation / インストール方法

1. Register an [M5Stack Community](https://community.m5stack.com/) account if you haven't already.
1. Launch the [M5Burner](https://docs.m5stack.com/en/download) .
1. Click `USER CUSTOM` in the lower left corner.
1. Log in to the M5Stack Community.
1. Click the `Share Burn` button.
1. Enter `8mg5GZJ5f8a2xklQ` in the `Share Code` field.
1. Click the lightning icon :zap: .

\[日本語\]

1. [M5Stack Community](https://community.m5stack.com/) のアカウントをまだ登録していない場合は登録してください。
1. [M5Burner](https://docs.m5stack.com/en/download) を起動します。
1. 左下隅の `USER CUSTOM` をクリックします。
1. M5Stack Communityにログインします。
1. `Share Burn` ボタンをクリックします。
1. `Share Code` フィールドに `8mg5GZJ5f8a2xklQ` と入力します。
1. 稲妻アイコン :zap: をクリックします。

# Installation for developers / インストール方法（開発者向け）

1. Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/cubic9com/m5core2_defrag.git
    cd m5core2_defrag
    ```

2. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) if you haven't already.

3. Open the project in Visual Studio Code:
    ```sh
    code .
    ```

4. Install `PlatformIO IDE` extension:
    - Go to the Extensions view (`Ctrl+Shift+X`).
    - Search for `PlatformIO IDE` and install it.

5. Open PlatformIO Home:
    - In the left Activity Bar, click the PlatformIO icon.
    - In the left Primary Sidebar, Go to `QUICK ACCESS > PIO Home > Open`.

6. Open the project:
    - In the right Editor Groups, Click `Open Project` in the `PIO HOME` tab.
    - Select the cloned `m5core2_defrag` project folder.

7. Upload the project:
    - In the left Primary Sidebar, go to `PROJECT TASKS > m5stack-core2 > General > Upload`.

\[日本語\]

1. リポジトリをクローンします:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/cubic9com/m5core2_defrag.git
    cd m5core2_defrag
    ```

2. まだインストールしていない場合は、[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) をインストールします。

3. Visual Studio Code でプロジェクトを開きます:
    ```sh
    code .
    ```

4. `PlatformIO IDE` 拡張機能をインストールします:
    - 左サイドバーの「拡張機能」ビュー (`Ctrl+Shift+X`) を開きます。
    - `PlatformIO IDE` を検索してインストールします。

5. PlatformIO Home を開きます:
    - 左のアクティビティバーで PlatformIO アイコンをクリックします。
    - 左のメインサイドバーから `QUICK ACCESS > PIO Home > Open` を選択します。

6. プロジェクトを開きます:
    - 右のエディターグループ内の `PIO HOME` タブで `Open Project` をクリックします。
    - クローンした `m5core2_defrag` プロジェクトフォルダーを選択します。

7. プロジェクトをアップロードします:
    - 左のメインサイドバーから `PROJECT TASKS > m5stack-core2 > General > Upload` を選択します。

# Usage / 使い方

When you power on the M5Stack Core 2, the defragmentation animation will start automatically.

NOTE: Please do not touch the screen while defragmenting. What happens if you do?

\[日本語\]

M5Stack Core 2の電源を入れると、自動的にデフラグアニメーション風のアニメーションが開始されます。

注意: デフラグ中は画面をタッチしないでください。タッチしたらどうなるか知りませんよ。

# ライセンス / License

Copyright (C) 2025, cubic9com All rights reserved.

This project is licensed under the MIT license.

See file `LICENSE` file for details.

Commit message:

Added motivation of this project.

README.md, after:

# Overview / 概要

The m5core2_defrag project displays a disk defragmentation tool-like animation on the [M5Stack Core 2](https://docs.m5stack.com/en/core/core2) etc.

\[日本語\]

m5core2_defrag プロジェクトは、[M5Stack Core 2](https://docs.m5stack.com/en/core/core2) などにデフラグツール風のアニメを表示します。

# Video / 動画

![video](video.gif)

# Motivation / 開発のきっかけ

Back in the day, there was something oddly soothing about mindlessly watching a hard disk defragment. Inspired by that, I made an animation mimicking it on the M5Stack Core 2.

\[日本語\]

昔、ハードディスクのデフラグの様子をぼーっと見てるのって、なんか安らぎましたよね。ということで、デフラグツール風のアニメーションをM5Stackに表示するやつを作りました。

# Supported device / 対応デバイス

- M5Stack Core2

# Potentially compatible devices / 対応していると思われるデバイス

- M5Stack Basic
- M5Stack Gray
- M5Stack Fire
- M5Stack CoreS3
- M5Stack CoreS3SE
- M5Stack Tab5

# Installation / インストール方法

1. Register an [M5Stack Community](https://community.m5stack.com/) account if you haven't already.
1. Launch the [M5Burner](https://docs.m5stack.com/en/download) .
1. Click `USER CUSTOM` in the lower left corner.
1. Log in to the M5Stack Community.
1. Click the `Share Burn` button.
1. Enter `8mg5GZJ5f8a2xklQ` in the `Share Code` field.
1. Click the lightning icon :zap: .

\[日本語\]

1. [M5Stack Community](https://community.m5stack.com/) のアカウントをまだ登録していない場合は登録してください。
1. [M5Burner](https://docs.m5stack.com/en/download) を起動します。
1. 左下隅の `USER CUSTOM` をクリックします。
1. M5Stack Communityにログインします。
1. `Share Burn` ボタンをクリックします。
1. `Share Code` フィールドに `8mg5GZJ5f8a2xklQ` と入力します。
1. 稲妻アイコン :zap: をクリックします。

# Installation for developers / インストール方法（開発者向け）

1. Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/cubic9com/m5core2_defrag.git
    cd m5core2_defrag
    ```

2. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) if you haven't already.

3. Open the project in Visual Studio Code:
    ```sh
    code .
    ```

4. Install `PlatformIO IDE` extension:
    - Go to the Extensions view (`Ctrl+Shift+X`).
    - Search for `PlatformIO IDE` and install it.

5. Open PlatformIO Home:
    - In the left Activity Bar, click the PlatformIO icon.
    - In the left Primary Sidebar, Go to `QUICK ACCESS > PIO Home > Open`.

6. Open the project:
    - In the right Editor Groups, Click `Open Project` in the `PIO HOME` tab.
    - Select the cloned `m5core2_defrag` project folder.

7. Upload the project:
    - In the left Primary Sidebar, go to `PROJECT TASKS > m5stack-core2 > General > Upload`.

\[日本語\]

1. リポジトリをクローンします:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/cubic9com/m5core2_defrag.git
    cd m5core2_defrag
    ```

2. まだインストールしていない場合は、[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) をインストールします。

3. Visual Studio Code でプロジェクトを開きます:
    ```sh
    code .
    ```

4. `PlatformIO IDE` 拡張機能をインストールします:
    - 左サイドバーの「拡張機能」ビュー (`Ctrl+Shift+X`) を開きます。
    - `PlatformIO IDE` を検索してインストールします。

5. PlatformIO Home を開きます:
    - 左のアクティビティバーで PlatformIO アイコンをクリックします。
    - 左のメインサイドバーから `QUICK ACCESS > PIO Home > Open` を選択します。

6. プロジェクトを開きます:
    - 右のエディターグループ内の `PIO HOME` タブで `Open Project` をクリックします。
    - クローンした `m5core2_defrag` プロジェクトフォルダーを選択します。

7. プロジェクトをアップロードします:
    - 左のメインサイドバーから `PROJECT TASKS > m5stack-core2 > General > Upload` を選択します。

# Usage / 使い方

When you power on the M5Stack Core 2, the defragmentation animation will start automatically.

NOTE: Please do not touch the screen while defragmenting. What happens if you do?

\[日本語\]

M5Stack Core 2の電源を入れると、自動的にデフラグアニメーション風のアニメーションが開始されます。

注意: デフラグ中は画面をタッチしないでください。タッチしたらどうなるか知りませんよ～。

# ライセンス / License

Copyright (C) 2025, cubic9com All rights reserved.

This project is licensed under the MIT license.

See file `LICENSE` file for details.
